                                                                                
▗ ▗   ▖ ▖  Claude Code v2.1.3                                                   
           Opus 4.5 · Claude Max                                                
  ▘▘ ▝▝    ~/claude/projects/timesheet-app                                      
                                                                                
❯ I'd like to work on Issue 64. I believe I have a path forward. I'll share     
  my thinking here and then we can scope out the work.                          
                                                                                
⏺ Let me fetch the details of Issue 64 first.                                   
                                                                                
⏺ Bash(gh issue view 64 --json title,body,labels,state)                         
  ⎿ {                                                                           
      "body": "Several scenarios at work here:\n\n- Reclassifying an event:     
     a new time entry is created but the old time entry is left behind\n- D     
    … +10 lines (ctrl+o to expand)                                              
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
⏺ Got it. Issue 64 is about time entries becoming stale when events change:     
                                                                                
  Problem scenarios:                                                            
  1. Reclassifying an event - creates a new time entry but leaves the old one   
  orphaned                                                                      
  2. Deleting a calendar - events disappear but time entries remain             
                                                                                
  Expected behavior (per PRD):                                                  
  - Time entries are derived from events                                        
  - Recalculate time entries when events change                                 
  - Delete orphaned time entries that have no user modifications                
  - Flag time entries with manual state that conflicts with event changes       
                                                                                
  Go ahead and share your thinking on the approach.                             
                                                                                
❯ I want to anchor on user scenarios before going into the mechanics of how     
  it works.                                                                     
  The most common scenario is that the user reviews a week/day, sees the        
  automatically generated time entries for each day, makes adjustments to       
  event classification until it looks right.                                    
  A slightly less common scenario is that the user reviews a week/day, sees     
  the automatically generated time entries for each day and overrides some      
  of the automatically generated time entries until it looks right.             
  Sometime later the user creates an invoice and may make changes to time       
  entries either by editing or by choosing a different summarization option     
  for the invoice.                                                              
                                                                                
  That's the relatively simple but important base. Now onto what happens to     
  make time entries "stale."                                                    
                                                                                
  The following scenarios are when a time entry *could* become stale:           
  - The calendar changes. Although changes to the calendar in the past are      
  rare, it does happen. Sometimes this is intentional, the user is "trueing     
  up" their calendar to reflect the work explicitly so that the timesheet       
  is accurate. Sometimes this is unintentional. The organizer of a meeting      
  deletes the entire meeting series and the past record of the event goes       
  away. This is really annoying and can cause the user to "lose" billable       
  time.                                                                         
  - A calendar is removed. All the events from that calendar go away.           
  - Manual classification changes. The user manually edits an event to          
  change its classification. This is probably the most common case. It has      
  the advantage of being obvious to the user. They made the change, they        
  can see (and we can highlight) the impact on the time entry.                  
  - Automatic classification changes. Whether its via rules updates or          
  asking an LLM to reclassify events via the MCP interface, it's possible       
  for many events to change across a large span of time.                        
                                                                                
  So what does stale mean? In my mind, stale is when what we would compute      
  automatically differs from what the user thinks is the current state.         
  Yes, that's a bit vague. I think a time entry is stale when what the user     
  has explicitly or implicitly approved would change.                           
                                                                                
  What will the user do about it?                                               
  If a time entry has been invoiced then it's not the time entry that is        
  stale, it's the invoice. An invoice is stale only if the hours would          
  change significantly. The user has implicitly accepted any titles and         
  descriptions in the invoice when it is created.                               
  If a time entry has not yet been invoiced but the user has not made any       
  changes to it, then it is not stale. Even if the user has viewed it.          
  While user might be a bit surprised if a time entry's hours changed a         
  lot, the app makes it very easy to review and understand any given day.       
  The hard case is if the user has edited the time entry and the computed       
  values have changed. We could snapshot the computed values at the time of     
  the user edit and then compare them to the newly generated values. This       
  is probably the most accurate way to determine that it is stale but it        
  feels complicated. I would like to keep it simple. I think if we limit        
  the scope of this to just the hours we'll be fine. A time entry is stale      
  if the user hours are different from the computed hours AND the computed      
  hours are different from the computed hours when the user hours were          
  input.                                                                        
                                                                                
  Edge cases and questions:                                                     
  The user deletes a computed time entry instead of zeroing it out. This,       
  ironically, is actually creating a time entry with a user hours of 0 so       
  that subsequent queries don't recreate it.                                    
                                                                                
  Cascading deletes of calendars. Do allow events to be deleted if they are     
  referenced by a time entry? My sense is that we do. Otherwise adding the      
  calendar back will create even messier edge cases.                            
                                                                                
  I have deliberately avoided implementation aspects like whether a time        
  entry is ephemeral until materialized through user input or invoicing.        
  These should largely be implementation details behind the API. The API        
  client asks for the time entries on a particulate date and gets back time     
  entries. The client may then (or not) update the user values of time          
  entries.                                                                      
                                                                                
⏺ This is a thoughtful breakdown. Let me engage with a few aspects:             
                                                                                
  The staleness formula is clear and scoped appropriately. Focusing on hours    
  avoids the complexity of diffing titles/descriptions. The formula:            
                                                                                
  stale if user_hours ≠ computed_hours AND computed_hours ≠                     
  snapshot_computed_hours                                                       
                                                                                
  This means we need to store snapshot_computed_hours when the user sets        
  user_hours. That's a small addition to the data model and captures intent     
  well.                                                                         
                                                                                
  The "delete = user_hours of 0" pattern is elegant but worth being explicit    
  about. If a user deletes a 2-hour entry and later the computed hours become 3,
   that's stale by your formula—which feels correct. The user explicitly        
  rejected those hours.                                                         
                                                                                
  Questions/pushback:                                                           
                                                                                
  1. Invoice staleness threshold — You said "only if hours change               
  significantly." Is this a hard threshold (e.g., ±5 minutes ignored) or just   
  conceptual? Rounding noise could create false positives.                      
  2. What triggers snapshotting? Is it specifically when user_hours is set, or  
  any user edit to the time entry (e.g., changing the description)? Your formula
   only references hours, so I'd assume only when user_hours is modified.       
  3. You've defined staleness but not resolution. Once flagged, what can the    
  user do? Accept new computed values (clear the override)? Keep their override 
  (acknowledge and dismiss the flag)? This affects whether we need additional   
  state like acknowledged_at.                                                   
  4. Uninvoiced, unedited entries "not stale" — I agree. But to be clear: these 
  entries get silently recomputed without any flag, correct? The user just sees 
  updated values next time they look.                                           
                                                                                
  Do you want to nail down the resolution UX before scoping implementation, or  
  treat that as a follow-on?                                                    
                                                                                
✻ Worked for 32s                                                                

